Now, at the hierarchical clustering
process, as we have seen,
we end up with a dendrogram
that provides for
a way to visually determine where
to cut off the number of clusters.
Here we see a dendrogram fit as a result
of hierarchical clustering process.
In this case, we could have drawn a line
at this point which would've determined
that there would be 3 clusters created,
as we can see from the different colors.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
Or, we could have drawn the line
here and ended up with 4 clusters.
But, we also would've ended up with
a cluster with a relatively small number
of objects.
As you can see, the number of
branches that the line crosses
indicates the number of clusters.
Here, we end up with 6 clusters.
And here,
we end up with 11 which in reality may
end up being too many to work with.
And, ends up with some large clusters
and some very small clusters.
Again, setting the number
becomes a bit subjective and
really depends on the business
problem you were trying to solve.
Also, as we commented earlier, the
hierarchical method will begin to get
a bit more difficult to work with when
dealing with large data sets of objects.
[BLANK_AUDIO]